[Maintain] Website: rewrite-keycdn-doc (#3472)
odoo/documentation: content/administration/install/cdn.rst

=======================================
Set up a content delivery network (CDN)
=======================================

.. _reference/cdn/keycdn:

Deploying with KeyCDN
=====================

A :abbr:`CDN (Content Delivery Network)` or *content distribution network*, is a geographically
distributed network of servers that provides high speed internet content. The :abbr:`CDN (Content
Delivery Network)` provides quick, high-quality content delivery for content-heavy websites.

This document will guide you through the setup of a KeyCDN_ account with an Odoo powered website.

> Step 1: Create a pull zone in the KeyCDN dashboard
> --------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: Don't need `Step #` labels in the headings since we indicate that this is a first step in the body copy.
```suggestion
Create a pull zone in the KeyCDN dashboard
------------------------------------------
```

settings` button to expand the zone options. This should be the last option on the page. After
expanding the :guilabel:`General Settings` ensure that the :guilabel:`CORS` option is
:guilabel:`enabled`.

Next, scroll to the bottom of the zone configuration page and :guilabel:`Save` the changes. KeyCDN
will indicate that the new zone will be deployed. This can take about 10 minutes.

.. image:: cdn/zone-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: KeyCDN deploying the new Zone.

.. note::
   A new :guilabel:`Zone URL` has been generated for your Zone, in this example it is
   ``pulltest-xxxxx.kxcdn.com``. This value will differ for each database.

Copy this :guilabel:`Zone URL` to a text editor for later, as it will be used in the next steps.

Configure the Odoo instance with the new zone
---------------------------------------------

In the Odoo :guilabel:`Website` app, go to the :menuselection:`Settings` and then activate the
:guilabel:`Content Delivery Network (CDN)` setting and copy/paste the :guilabel:`Zone URL` value
from the earlier step into the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL` field. This field is only visible and

> configurable when :doc:`../../applications/general/developer_mode` is activated.

Reviewer 2: When referencing another page with the `doc` directive, it's usually safer to force a label if you are using the page title in your sentence. Otherwise, your sentence might look weird when someone renames that page: "configurable when Find out how to enable dev mode is activated."

.. note::
   Ensure that there are two *forward slashes* (`//`) before the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL` and one
   forward slash (`/`) after the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL`.

:guilabel:`Save` the settings when complete.

.. image:: cdn/cdn-base-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Activate the CDN setting in Odoo.

Now the website is using the CDN for the resources matching the :guilabel:`CDN filters` regular
expressions.

In the HTML of the Odoo website, the :abbr:`CDN (content delivery network)` integration is evidenced

> as working properly by checking the :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locators)` of images. The CDN Base
> URL can be seen by using your web browser's :guilabel:`Inspect` feature on the Odoo website. Look
> for it's record by searching within the :guilabel:`Network` tab inside of devtools.

Reviewer: Italicize the reference to a field.
```suggestion
as working properly by checking the :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locators)` of images. The *CDN Base
URL* value can be seen by using your web browser's :guilabel:`Inspect` feature on the Odoo website.
Look for it's record by searching within the :guilabel:`Network` tab inside of devtools.
```

.. image:: cdn/test-pull.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The CDN Base URL can be seen using the inspect function on the Odoo website.

Prevent security issues by activating cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

A security restriction in some browsers (such as Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome) prevents a
remotely linked CSS file to fetch relative resources on this same external server.

If the :abbr:`CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)` option isn't enabled in the :guilabel:`CDN

> Zone`, the more obvious resulting problem on a standard Odoo website will be the lack of Font
> Awesome icons because the font file declared in the Font Awesome CSS won't be loaded from the remote
> server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zone`, the more obvious resulting problem on a standard Odoo website will be the lack of *Font
Awesome* icons because the font file declared in the *Font Awesome* CSS won't be loaded from the
remote server.
```

> When these cross-origin resource issues occur, a security error message will appear in the web
> browser's developer console:

Reviewer: Adding some room for differences in the error messages.
```suggestion
When these cross-origin resource issues occur, a security error message similar to the output
below will appear in the web browser's developer console:
```

.. _reference/cdn/keycdn:

Deploying with KeyCDN
=====================

> .. sectionauthor:: Fabien Meghazi / Timothy Kukulka

Author: I thought that was an odd tag to add :)

> A :abbr:`CDN (Content Delivery Network)` or Content Distribution Network, is a geographically

Author: Noted thanks~

distributed network of servers that provides high speed internet content. The
:abbr:`CDN (Content Delivery Network)` provides quick, quality content for content heavy websites.

This document will guide you through the setup of a KeyCDN_ account with an Odoo powered website.

Step 1: Create a pull zone in the KeyCDN dashboard
--------------------------------------------------

On the KeyCDN dashboard, navigate to :guilabel:`Zones` menu item on the left. Name the
:guilabel:`Zone Name`. This name will appear in the :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`. The
:guilabel:`Zone Status` can be toggled back and forth from :guilabel:`Active` to
:guilabel:`Inactive`. For this process the :guilabel:`Zone Type` should be :guilabel:`Pull`. Under
:guilabel:`Pull Settings` enter the :guilabel:`Origin URL`. This should be the full database

> :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`.

Author: Noted, I like the way you wrote this out. Thanks so much Zac!

.. example::
   Use ``https://yourdatabase.odoo.com``. Replace *yourdatabase* with the name of the database or the
   custom URL.

.. image:: cdn/keycdn-zone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: KeyCDN's Zone configuration page.

> Under :guilabel:`General Settings` click the :guilabel:`Show all settings` button to expand the

Author: I no longer have access to the dashboard to see, as it was only a two-week trial. I wasn't referring to the screenshot, but rather, it was a screen direction; the option is at the bottom. It isn't a huge deal because by default, this is already enabled.

> Under :guilabel:`General Settings` click the :guilabel:`Show all settings` button to expand the

Author: Yes the General settings are on the Zone page. It is quite a long page.

> Zone options. This should be the last option on the page. After expanding the

Author: Yes, it should be.

:guilabel:`General Settings` ensure that the :guilabel:`CORS` option is enabled. By default this

> option should be *enabled*.

Author: Definitely gets a guilabel! I removed the last part!

Next, scroll to the bottom of the Zone configuration page and :guilabel:`Save` the changes. KeyCDN

> will indicate that the new Zone will be deployed, this can take about 10 minutes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
will indicate that the new Zone will be deployed. This can take about 10 minutes.
```

.. image:: cdn/zone-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: KeyCDN deploying the new Zone.

.. note::
   A new :guilabel:`Zone URL` has been generated for your Zone, in this example it is

>    ``pulltest-xxxxx.kxcdn.com``. This will differ for each database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``pulltest-xxxxx.kxcdn.com``. This value will differ for each database.
```

> Copy this :guilabel:`Zone URL` to a Notepad as it will be used in the next steps.

Reviewer: Notepad is a WIndows-specific program.
```suggestion
Copy this :guilabel:`Zone URL` to a text editor for later, as it will be used in the next steps.
```

Author: Good catch Zac!

Step 2: Configure the Odoo instance with the new zone
-----------------------------------------------------

> In the Odoo Website App, go to the :menuselection:`Settings` and then activate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Odoo :guilabel:`Website` app, go to the :menuselection:`Settings` and then activate the
```

> :guilabel:`Content Delivery Network (CDN)` and copy/paste the :guilabel:`zone URL` in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Content Delivery Network (CDN)` setting and copy/paste the :guilabel:`Zone URL` value from the earlier step into the
```

:guilabel:`CDN Base URL` field. This field is only visible and configurable when
:doc:`../../applications/general/developer_mode` is activated.

.. note::

>    Ensure that there are two "//"" *Forward Slashes* before the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL` and one "/"
>    *Forward Slash* after the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Ensure that there are two *forward slashes* (`//`) before the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL` and one forward slash (`/`)
   after the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL`.
```

> :guilabel:`Save` the Settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Save` the settings when complete.
```

.. image:: cdn/cdn-base-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Activate the CDN setting in Odoo.

Now the website is using the CDN for the resources matching the :guilabel:`CDN filters` regular
expressions.

> In the HTML of the Odoo website the CDN integration is evidenced as working properly by checking the

Reviewer: Needs comma and use `abbr` tag for acronyms.
```suggestion
In the HTML of the Odoo website, the :abbr:`CDN (content delivery network)` integration is evidenced as working properly by checking the
```

Author: Thanks!

> :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locators)` of images. The CDN Base URL can be seen using the inspect
> function on the Odoo website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locators)` of images. The CDN Base URL can be seen by using your web browser's `:guilabel:`Inspect` feature on the Odoo website. Look for it's record by searching within the :guilabel:`Network` tab inside of devtools.
```

.. image:: cdn/test-pull.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The CDN Base URL can be seen using the inspect function on the Odoo website.

> Why activate CORS?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prevent security issues by activating cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)
```

------------------

> A security restriction in some browsers (Firefox and Chrome) prevents a remotely linked CSS file to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A security restriction in some browsers (such as Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome) prevents a remotely linked CSS file to
```

fetch relative resources on this same external server.

> If the CORS option isn't enabled in the :guilabel:`CDN zone`, the more obvious resulting problem on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the :abbr:`CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)` option isn't enabled in the :guilabel:`CDN Zone`, the more obvious resulting problem on
```

> a default Odoo website will be the lack of font-awesome icons because the font file declared in the

Reviewer: FA is a proper noun, no hyphen
```suggestion
a standard Odoo website will be the lack of Font Awesome icons because the font file declared in the
```

Author: Thanks for pointing this out!

> font-awesome CSS won't be loaded on the remote server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CSS won't be loaded from the remote server.
```

> A security error message will appear in the browser's console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When these cross-origin resource issues occur, a security error message will appear in the web browser's developer console:
```

Reviewer: @tiku-odoo also, write out the full error and surround it in backticks `` like it was a block of code. We can't rely on screenshots to convey important information since they're just supplemental. I think multi-line blocks like this use three backticks at the beginning and end.

Author: Added in thanks!

.. image:: cdn/odoo-security-message.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Error message populated in the browser console.

> Enabling the CORS option in the :abbr:`CDN (Content Delivery Network)` fixes this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the :abbr:`CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)` option in the :abbr:`CDN (Content Delivery Network)` settings fixes this issue.
```

option should be *enabled*.

Next, scroll to the bottom of the Zone configuration page and :guilabel:`Save` the changes. KeyCDN
will indicate that the new Zone will be deployed, this can take about 10 minutes.

.. image:: cdn/zone-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: KeyCDN deploying the new Zone.

.. note::
   A new :guilabel:`Zone URL` has been generated for your Zone, in this example it is
   ``pulltest-xxxxx.kxcdn.com``. This will differ for each database.

The :guilabel:`Zone URL` produced in each instance is different. Copy this :guilabel:`Zone URL` to
a Notepad as it will be used in the next steps.

Step 2: Configure the Odoo instance with the new zone
-----------------------------------------------------

In the Odoo Website App, go to the :menuselection:`Settings` and then activate the
:guilabel:`Content Delivery Network (CDN)` and copy/paste the :guilabel:`zone URL` in the
:guilabel:`CDN Base URL` field. This field is only visible and configurable when
:doc:`../../applications/general/developer_mode` is activated.

.. note::
   Ensure that there are two "//"" *Forward Slashes* before the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL` and one "/"

>    *Forward Slash* after the :guilabel:`CDN Base URL`.

Author: Great call! Thank you!
